CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing
Thank you for checking and considering a contribution to pcsFilter!

## How can contribute?
There are multiple options:
1. [Create a bug report](https://github.com/alex-d-bondarev/pcsFilter/issues/new?template=bug_report.md).
2. [Create a feature request](https://github.com/alex-d-bondarev/pcsFilter/issues/new?template=feature_request.md).
3. [Ask a question](https://github.com/alex-d-bondarev/pcsFilter/issues/new?template=question.md).
4. Help fixing reported issue. See details below:

## Help fixing reported issue.
There are multiple ways you can help with reported issues:
1. No coding help:
   1. Participate in issue discussions.
   2. Help answering existing questions.
2. Help with code:
   1. Update documentation files.
   2. Add a test that fails due to reported issue.
   3. Implement a fix for a reported issue.

### Help with code
If you feel comfortable with code help please fork pcsFilter and create
a branch with a descriptive name.

A good branch name would be (where issue #12 is the ticket you're working on):

```sh
git checkout -b i12-use-isort-api
```

#### Get the test suite running
##### Precondition
**NOTE**: You can skip this section when documentation is changed only.

1. [make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) is installed
2. [pipenv](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/#install-pipenv-today) is installed
3. [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv#installation) 
   is installed with the following python versions:
     - 3.7.12
     - 3.8.12
     - 3.9.1 
     - 3.10.6
4. Install the development dependencies:
   ```shell
   make install
   ```

##### Test project
**NOTE**: You can skip this section when documentation is changed only.

Test the project after each code change by running make:
```shell
make test_all
```

### Change the code and/or documentation
There might be a confusion with different parts of the code or test process.
Please feel free to ask any questions as part of issue discussion if you have any.

### Final test run
**NOTE**: You can skip this section when documentation is changed only.

Lets ensure that all tests pass by running:
```shell
make test_all
```
Please commit code changes if any were generated by this command.

### Make a Pull Request
At this point, you should switch back to your master branch and make sure it's
up to date with pcsFilter master branch:

```sh
git remote add upstream git@github.com:alex-d-bondarev/pcsFilter.git
git checkout master
git pull upstream master
```

Then update your feature branch from your local copy of master, and push it!

```sh
git checkout i12-use-isort-api
git rebase master
git push --set-upstream origin i12-use-isort-api
```

Finally, go to GitHub and make a Pull Request

### Keeping your Pull Request updated
If a maintainer asks you to "rebase" your PR, they're saying that a lot of code
has changed, and that you need to update your branch so it's easier to merge.

You can perform this by repeating the commands from the [Make a Pull Request section](#make-a-pull-request)
or by executing the following commands:

```sh
git checkout i12-use-isort-api
git pull --rebase upstream master
git push --force-with-lease i12-use-isort-api
```

### Merging a PR (maintainers only)
A PR can only be merged into master by a maintainer if:

* PR template checkboxes were clicked.
* It has no requested changes.
* It is up to date with current master.

Any maintainer is allowed to merge a PR if all of these conditions are
met.

### Shipping a release (maintainers only)
Maintainers need to do the following to push out a release:

* Switch to the master branch and make sure it's up to date.
* Test locally
    ```shell
    pip install -e .
    ```
* Prepare to publish the project
    ```shell
    PIPENV_IGNORE_VIRTUALENVS=1 pipenv run python setup.py bdist_wheel
    PIPENV_IGNORE_VIRTUALENVS=1 pipenv run pip3 install -e .
    pipenv shell
    pcsFilter src/pcsFilter
    exit
    PIPENV_IGNORE_VIRTUALENVS=1 pipenv run python setup.py sdist
    tar tzf dist/pcsFilter-<version>.tar.gz 
    ```
* Upload to pypi
    ```shell
    twine check dist/*
    twine upload dist/*
    ```

## References:
The [activeadmin CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/activeadmin/activeadmin/blob/HEAD/CONTRIBUTING.md) 
was used as basis for the given CONTRIBUTING.md

Commit message:

Add workflow details (#81)
* Add workflow details

* Update PR template

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing
Thank you for checking and considering a contribution to pcsFilter!

## How can contribute?
There are multiple options:
1. [Create a bug report](https://github.com/alex-d-bondarev/pcsFilter/issues/new?template=bug_report.md).
2. [Create a feature request](https://github.com/alex-d-bondarev/pcsFilter/issues/new?template=feature_request.md).
3. [Ask a question](https://github.com/alex-d-bondarev/pcsFilter/issues/new?template=question.md).
4. Help fixing reported issue. See details below:

### Issue workflow
`requires_review` -> `task`
                  \
                   > `wontfix`

All new issues will be created with `requires_review` label.
This labels should later be replaced with `task` for issues that will be worked on.
Otherwise `wontfix` label will be applied.

## Help fixing reported issue.
There are multiple ways you can help with reported issues:
1. No coding help:
   1. Participate in issue discussions.
   2. Help answering existing questions.
2. Help with code:
   1. Update documentation files.
   2. Add a test that fails due to reported issue.
   3. Implement a fix for a reported issue.

### Help with code
If you feel comfortable with code help please fork pcsFilter and create
a branch with a descriptive name.

A good branch name would be (where issue #12 is the ticket you're working on):

```sh
git checkout -b i12-use-isort-api
```

#### Get the test suite running
##### Precondition
**NOTE**: You can skip this section when documentation is changed only.

1. [make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) is installed
2. [pipenv](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/#install-pipenv-today) is installed
3. [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv#installation) 
   is installed with the following python versions:
     - 3.7.12
     - 3.8.12
     - 3.9.1 
     - 3.10.6
4. Install the development dependencies:
   ```shell
   make install
   ```

##### Test project
**NOTE**: You can skip this section when documentation is changed only.

Test the project after each code change by running make:
```shell
make test_all
```

### Change the code and/or documentation
There might be a confusion with different parts of the code or test process.
Please feel free to ask any questions as part of issue discussion if you have any.

### Final test run
**NOTE**: You can skip this section when documentation is changed only.

Lets ensure that all tests pass by running:
```shell
make test_all
```
Please commit code changes if any were generated by this command.

### Make a Pull Request
At this point, you should switch back to your master branch and make sure it's
up to date with pcsFilter master branch:

```sh
git remote add upstream git@github.com:alex-d-bondarev/pcsFilter.git
git checkout master
git pull upstream master
```

Then update your feature branch from your local copy of master, and push it!

```sh
git checkout i12-use-isort-api
git rebase master
git push --set-upstream origin i12-use-isort-api
```

Finally, go to GitHub and make a Pull Request

### Keeping your Pull Request updated
If a maintainer asks you to "rebase" your PR, they're saying that a lot of code
has changed, and that you need to update your branch so it's easier to merge.

You can perform this by repeating the commands from the [Make a Pull Request section](#make-a-pull-request)
or by executing the following commands:

```sh
git checkout i12-use-isort-api
git pull --rebase upstream master
git push --force-with-lease i12-use-isort-api
```

### Merging a PR (maintainers only)
A PR can only be merged into master by a maintainer if:

* PR template checkboxes were clicked.
* It has no requested changes.
* It is up to date with current master.

Any maintainer is allowed to merge a PR if all of these conditions are
met.

### Shipping a release (maintainers only)
Maintainers need to do the following to push out a release:

* Switch to the master branch and make sure it's up to date.
* Test locally
    ```shell
    pip install -e .
    ```
* Prepare to publish the project
    ```shell
    PIPENV_IGNORE_VIRTUALENVS=1 pipenv run python setup.py bdist_wheel
    PIPENV_IGNORE_VIRTUALENVS=1 pipenv run pip3 install -e .
    pipenv shell
    pcsFilter src/pcsFilter
    exit
    PIPENV_IGNORE_VIRTUALENVS=1 pipenv run python setup.py sdist
    tar tzf dist/pcsFilter-<version>.tar.gz 
    ```
* Upload to pypi
    ```shell
    twine check dist/*
    twine upload dist/*
    ```

## References:
The [activeadmin CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/activeadmin/activeadmin/blob/HEAD/CONTRIBUTING.md) 
was used as basis for the given CONTRIBUTING.md
